developer-quick-reference.mdx, before:

---
title: Developer Quick Reference
description: 'Essential guide for developers using Greptile AI code reviews'
keywords: 'developer guide, code review bot, manual triggers, dashboard, inline chat'
metaTitle: 'Greptile Developer Guide: Quick Reference for Individual Contributors'
metaDescription: 'Practical guide for developers on how to effectively use Greptile AI code reviews, including manual triggers, inline chat, and dashboard features.'
---

## Overview

**What does Greptile do?**
- AI code review bot that analyzes your pull requests
- Reviews code with full context of your entire codebase
- Provides three types of feedback: summary, inline comments, and suggested fixes
- Learns from your team's preferences and feedback over time

**How is it different from other tools?**
- Understands your specific codebase patterns and architecture
- References related code across your entire repository when making suggestions
- Learns what your team cares about through reactions and feedback
- Provides conversational interaction - you can ask follow-up questions

## Capabilities

**What types of issues does it catch?**
- Logic errors and potential bugs in your code
- Security vulnerabilities like unvalidated inputs or SQL injection risks
- Performance issues and inefficient patterns
- Code style and consistency violations
- Missing error handling or edge cases

**What feedback does it provide?**
- Summary of changes in your PR
- Inline comments on specific lines with issues
- Suggested code fixes you can click-to-accept
- References to similar code in your codebase
- Explanations of why something might be problematic

**Can I ask it questions?**
- Reply to any comment with `@greptileai <your question>` and Greptile will respond
- Ask for clarification on why something is flagged
- Request alternative approaches to solve problems
- Get explanations of unfamiliar code patterns

## When does it run?

**When does Greptile automatically review?**
- Your team configures trigger rules (labels, authors, branches, keywords)
- Usually runs when PRs are first opened
- May run on every commit push depending on team settings
- Skips PRs that match ignore patterns (certain files, branches, etc.)

**How do I manually trigger a review?**
- Comment `@greptileai` on any PR to force an immediate review
- Works on old PRs, even from before Greptile was enabled
- Can re-trigger after making changes to get updated feedback
- No rate limits - use as often as needed

**Why isn't it reviewing my PR?**
- Check if your PR matches your team's trigger rules
- Your changes might be in excluded files or directories
- Try manual trigger with `@greptileai` comment
- Ask your team admin to check dashboard settings

## How do I give it more context?

**What is custom context?**
- Files your team uploads to help Greptile understand your standards
- Style guides, architecture docs, security requirements, API standards
- Greptile references these when reviewing your code
- Ask your team admin what context files have been uploaded

**How does Greptile use uploaded files?**
- Searches context files when making suggestions
- Enforces standards documented in uploaded guides
- References architecture patterns from your docs
- Ensures consistency with your team's documented practices

**What should my team upload?**
- Coding style guides and conventions
- Architecture decision records and system design docs
- Security policies and compliance requirements
- API design standards and patterns
- Testing strategies and requirements

## About memory and learning

**How does Greptile learn?**
- From thumbs up/down reactions on its comments
- By reading other developers' comments on PRs
- By analyzing which suggestions get implemented vs ignored
- From team discussions about code patterns and preferences

**What does it remember about my team?**
- Code patterns you prefer (async/await vs Promises)
- Architecture preferences (thin controllers, service layers)
- Security standards (input validation requirements)
- Style preferences (what matters vs what doesn't)

**How do I train it effectively?**
- Use thumbs up on helpful comments
- Use thumbs down on unhelpful or wrong suggestions
- React consistently - regular feedback helps it learn faster
- Explain in comments why you're dismissing suggestions

**How long does learning take?**
- 2-3 weeks of consistent feedback for noticeable improvement
- Early weeks may have more noise as it learns preferences
- Gets better at filtering suggestions to what your team values
- Becomes more accurate at understanding your codebase context

## About codebase context

**How does Greptile understand my codebase?**
- Builds a detailed graph of functions, classes, files, and their relationships
- Analyzes dependencies and how different parts of code connect
- Understands data flow and usage patterns across your repository
- Maps out your architecture and common patterns

**What context does it use when reviewing?**
- Code affected by your changes and its dependencies
- Related code that follows similar patterns
- Files that import or are imported by your changes
- Similar functions or components elsewhere in the codebase

**Does it see my entire repository?**
- Yes, Greptile analyzes your full codebase to build context
- Uses this understanding to make more accurate suggestions
- Can reference patterns from anywhere in your repository
- Understands how your changes fit into the bigger picture

## Chatting with the bot with follow-up questions

**How do I ask follow-up questions?**
- Reply to any Greptile comment with `@greptileai <your question>`
- Ask on any line of your PR, even without an existing comment
- Questions can be about the specific code or general patterns

**What kinds of questions can I ask?**
- "Can you explain why this is a security issue?"
- "What's a better way to handle this error case?"
- "How should I test this function?"
- "Are there similar patterns elsewhere in our codebase?"
- "What are the performance implications of this approach?"

**What responses can I expect?**
- Explanations tailored to your specific code and codebase
- Alternative approaches with code examples
- References to similar patterns in your repository
- Context about why certain practices are recommended
- Suggestions for testing, error handling, or optimization

**Tips for effective conversations:**
- Be specific in your questions
- Reference the exact code or pattern you're asking about
- Ask about alternatives if you disagree with a suggestion
- Use conversations to learn about best practices for your codebase

**Greptile is making too many comments, what should I do?**
- You can go to `Settings` in the dashboard and use the `Severity Threshold` slider
- You can turn off `style` or `syntax` comments in the same settings window

Commit message:

Update developer-quick-reference - prompt indexing check
Was wondering why Greptile was not reviewing our PRs - then found that our repos are still being indexed.

I assume that's the reason, but let me know if not!

developer-quick-reference.mdx, after:

---
title: Developer Quick Reference
description: 'Essential guide for developers using Greptile AI code reviews'
keywords: 'developer guide, code review bot, manual triggers, dashboard, inline chat'
metaTitle: 'Greptile Developer Guide: Quick Reference for Individual Contributors'
metaDescription: 'Practical guide for developers on how to effectively use Greptile AI code reviews, including manual triggers, inline chat, and dashboard features.'
---

## Overview

**What does Greptile do?**
- AI code review bot that analyzes your pull requests
- Reviews code with full context of your entire codebase
- Provides three types of feedback: summary, inline comments, and suggested fixes
- Learns from your team's preferences and feedback over time

**How is it different from other tools?**
- Understands your specific codebase patterns and architecture
- References related code across your entire repository when making suggestions
- Learns what your team cares about through reactions and feedback
- Provides conversational interaction - you can ask follow-up questions

## Capabilities

**What types of issues does it catch?**
- Logic errors and potential bugs in your code
- Security vulnerabilities like unvalidated inputs or SQL injection risks
- Performance issues and inefficient patterns
- Code style and consistency violations
- Missing error handling or edge cases

**What feedback does it provide?**
- Summary of changes in your PR
- Inline comments on specific lines with issues
- Suggested code fixes you can click-to-accept
- References to similar code in your codebase
- Explanations of why something might be problematic

**Can I ask it questions?**
- Reply to any comment with `@greptileai <your question>` and Greptile will respond
- Ask for clarification on why something is flagged
- Request alternative approaches to solve problems
- Get explanations of unfamiliar code patterns

## When does it run?

**When does Greptile automatically review?**
- Your team configures trigger rules (labels, authors, branches, keywords)
- Usually runs when PRs are first opened
- May run on every commit push depending on team settings
- Skips PRs that match ignore patterns (certain files, branches, etc.)

**How do I manually trigger a review?**
- Comment `@greptileai` on any PR to force an immediate review
- Works on old PRs, even from before Greptile was enabled
- Can re-trigger after making changes to get updated feedback
- No rate limits - use as often as needed

**Why isn't it reviewing my PR?**
- Check if your PR matches your team's trigger rules
- Your changes might be in excluded files or directories
- Try manual trigger with `@greptileai` comment
- Ask your team admin to check dashboard settings
- Ensure your PR's repository is enabled and indexed in Greptile settings

## How do I give it more context?

**What is custom context?**
- Files your team uploads to help Greptile understand your standards
- Style guides, architecture docs, security requirements, API standards
- Greptile references these when reviewing your code
- Ask your team admin what context files have been uploaded

**How does Greptile use uploaded files?**
- Searches context files when making suggestions
- Enforces standards documented in uploaded guides
- References architecture patterns from your docs
- Ensures consistency with your team's documented practices

**What should my team upload?**
- Coding style guides and conventions
- Architecture decision records and system design docs
- Security policies and compliance requirements
- API design standards and patterns
- Testing strategies and requirements

## About memory and learning

**How does Greptile learn?**
- From thumbs up/down reactions on its comments
- By reading other developers' comments on PRs
- By analyzing which suggestions get implemented vs ignored
- From team discussions about code patterns and preferences

**What does it remember about my team?**
- Code patterns you prefer (async/await vs Promises)
- Architecture preferences (thin controllers, service layers)
- Security standards (input validation requirements)
- Style preferences (what matters vs what doesn't)

**How do I train it effectively?**
- Use thumbs up on helpful comments
- Use thumbs down on unhelpful or wrong suggestions
- React consistently - regular feedback helps it learn faster
- Explain in comments why you're dismissing suggestions

**How long does learning take?**
- 2-3 weeks of consistent feedback for noticeable improvement
- Early weeks may have more noise as it learns preferences
- Gets better at filtering suggestions to what your team values
- Becomes more accurate at understanding your codebase context

## About codebase context

**How does Greptile understand my codebase?**
- Builds a detailed graph of functions, classes, files, and their relationships
- Analyzes dependencies and how different parts of code connect
- Understands data flow and usage patterns across your repository
- Maps out your architecture and common patterns

**What context does it use when reviewing?**
- Code affected by your changes and its dependencies
- Related code that follows similar patterns
- Files that import or are imported by your changes
- Similar functions or components elsewhere in the codebase

**Does it see my entire repository?**
- Yes, Greptile analyzes your full codebase to build context
- Uses this understanding to make more accurate suggestions
- Can reference patterns from anywhere in your repository
- Understands how your changes fit into the bigger picture

## Chatting with the bot with follow-up questions

**How do I ask follow-up questions?**
- Reply to any Greptile comment with `@greptileai <your question>`
- Ask on any line of your PR, even without an existing comment
- Questions can be about the specific code or general patterns

**What kinds of questions can I ask?**
- "Can you explain why this is a security issue?"
- "What's a better way to handle this error case?"
- "How should I test this function?"
- "Are there similar patterns elsewhere in our codebase?"
- "What are the performance implications of this approach?"

**What responses can I expect?**
- Explanations tailored to your specific code and codebase
- Alternative approaches with code examples
- References to similar patterns in your repository
- Context about why certain practices are recommended
- Suggestions for testing, error handling, or optimization

**Tips for effective conversations:**
- Be specific in your questions
- Reference the exact code or pattern you're asking about
- Ask about alternatives if you disagree with a suggestion
- Use conversations to learn about best practices for your codebase

**Greptile is making too many comments, what should I do?**
- You can go to `Settings` in the dashboard and use the `Severity Threshold` slider
- You can turn off `style` or `syntax` comments in the same settings window
